Using The FLReconstruct Application {#usingflreconstruct}
===================================

\tableofcontents

Introduction to FLReconstruct {#usingflreconstruct_intro}
====================================

FLReconstruct's task is to read data  from an output file generated by
the SuperNEMO  simulation or detector, perform  reconstruction on each
event in the data, and write the reconstructed data to an output file.
It uses a pipeline architecture  for event processing, the pipeline is
constructed as a sequence of  "modules", the sequence of modules being
selected  by  the user  (i.e.  you)  at  runtime. Falaise  provides  a
standard set  of pipelines  and modules,  and you  can write  your own
custom pipeline  scripts and modules  which FLReconstruct can  load at
runtime via a plugin mechanism.

Here we  present a  brief overview of  running FLReconstruct  from the
command line  using the standard  pipeline scripts. The  more advanced
topics  of  scripting the  pipeline  and  writing custom  modules  are
covered   in  the   [Writing   FLReconstruct  Pipeline   Scripts](@ref
writingflreconstructpipelinescripts)                               and
[Writing   FLReconstruct  Modules](@ref   writingflreconstructmodules)
tutorials.

Example Usage {#usingflreconstruct_examples}
=============

The flreconstruct program is a  command line application just like any
other Unix style program (e.g. `ls`).  In the following, we will write
commands assuming  that `flreconstruct`  is in your  path. If  is not,
simply use the relative or absolute path to `flreconstruct`.

You can get help on the  options that can be passed to `flreconstruct`
by running it with the `-h` or `--help` options, e.g.

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct --help
flreconstruct (3.0.0) : SuperNEMO reconstruction program
Usage:
  flreconstruct [options]
Options:
  -h [ --help ]                        print this help message
  --help-module-list                   list available modules and exit
  --help-module name                   print help for a single module and exit
  --help-pipeline-list                 list available pipeline configurations
                                       and exit
  --version                            print version number
  -V [ --verbosity ] level             set the verbosity level
  -P [ --modulo ] period (=0)          progress modulo on number of events
  -u [ --user-profile ] name (=normal) set the user profile ("expert",
                                       "normal", "production")
  -M [ --input-metadata-file ] file    file from which to load metadata
  -m [ --output-metadata-file ] file   file in which to store metadata
  -E [ --embedded-metadata ] flag (=0) flag to (de)activate recording of
                                       metadata in the reconstruction results
                                       output file
  -p [ --pipeline ] file               pipeline script
  -i [ --input-file ] file             file from which to read input data
                                       (simulation, real)
  -o [ --output-file ] file            file in which to store reconstruction
                                       results

~~~~~

The `--version` option provides detailed information of the current
status of the application, including which libraries it uses:

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct --version
flreconstruct 3.0.0

Copyright (C) 2013-2017 SuperNEMO Collaboration

flreconstruct uses the following external libraries:
* Falaise : 3.0.0
* Bayeux  : 3.0.0
* Boost   : 106000

~~~~~

The exact versions you see will depend on the version you are using
and the versions of external packages linked.

To examine  a data  file output by  the `flsimulate`  application, you
need  to supply,  at minimum,  an input  file. By  default, this  will
simply dump  information on each  event held  in the file  to standard
output (i.e.  the  current terminal). For example, say we  have a file
`example.brio`, then we can dump events in that file by doing:

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct -i example.brio
flreconstruct::default:
`-- Bank 'SD' : "mctools::simulated_data"
    |-- Properties : <empty>
    |   `-- <no property>
    |-- Collection type : 1
    |-- Collections of step hit handles :
    |   |-- Category 'calo' has 2 hit(s) [capacity=2]
    |   `-- Category 'gg' has 31 hit(s) [capacity=31]
    |-- Primary event :
    |   |-- Auxiliary properties: <none>
    |   |-- Label : 'Se82.0nubb'
    |   |-- Time  : 0 s
    |   |-- Particles: [2]
    |   |   |-- Particle #0 :
    |   |   |   |-- Generation Id  : <none>
    |   |   |   |-- Type           : 3 (label='e-')
    |   |   |   |-- PDG code       : <none>
    |   |   |   |-- Mass           : 0.510999 MeV
    |   |   |   |-- Charge         : -1 e
    |   |   |   |-- Time           : 0 ns
    |   |   |   |-- Kinetic energy : 2.4231 MeV
    |   |   |   |-- Momentum       : (-0.903124,0.824222,2.6178) MeV
    |   |   |   |-- Vertex         : <no vertex>
    |   |   |   |-- Auxiliary properties: <none>
    |   |   |   `-- Valid          : 1
    |   |   `-- Particle #1 :
    |   |       |-- Generation Id  : <none>
    |   |       |-- Type           : 3 (label='e-')
    |   |       |-- PDG code       : <none>
    |   |       |-- Mass           : 0.510999 MeV
    |   |       |-- Charge         : -1 e
    |   |       |-- Time           : 0 ns
    |   |       |-- Kinetic energy : 0.571898 MeV
    |   |       |-- Momentum       : (-0.700223,-0.622764,-0.182756) MeV
    |   |       |-- Vertex         : <no vertex>
    |   |       |-- Auxiliary properties: <none>
    |   |       `-- Valid          : 1
    |   |-- GENBB weight : 1
    |   |-- Classification : '2e0p0g0a0X'
    |   `-- Valid: 1
    `-- Vertex : (-0.0440134,1597.93,40.6704) mm
... further events ...
$
~~~~~

Using Standard Pipelines {#usingflreconstruct_usingstandardpipelines}
========================
FLReconstruct implements a "pipeline" architecture in which events flow
through an ordered sequence of "modules". Each module performs a specific
task on the event (e.g. count hits), writing its results into the event
for further processing by downstream modules. The sequence of modules
and their configuration (e.g. algorithm parameters) in the pipeline
are constructed via a `datatools::multi_properties` script. A set of
pipeline scripts are supplied with Falaise by the Software Board
to provide easy to use, validated reconstruction chains.

The available pipelines can be viewed by passing the `--help-pipeline-list`
argument to `flreconstruct`. This will print a tree of the available
builtin pipelines

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct --help-pipeline-list
List of supported reconstruction pipeline:
urn:snemo:demonstrator:reconstruction:pipeline:1.0.0 : SuperNEMO reconstruction pipeline modules (version 1.0.0)
$
~~~~~

Standard pipeline scripts are organised into directories based on the
experiment they apply to, and should only be used for reconstructing
data from these experiments. Note that `flreconstruct` only partially validate
that a pipeline script can be applied to the input data. Pipeline definition scripts for
each experiments are tagged with a versioning URN.
You should always regard the highest version tag as the current approved
script to use for production.

The output file generated by `flreconstruct` may be opened and the results visualized using the [`flvisualize`
GUI application](@ref usingflvisualize)

Builtin reconstruction scripts can be run in `flreconstruct`:

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct -i example.brio -p myrecscript.conf
~~~~~

If standard reconstruction scripts are published in Falaise, it is possible to
use the following syntax:

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct -i example.brio -p @falaise:config/snemo/demonstrator/reconstruction/1.0/setup.conf
~~~~~

Here `@falaise:` is simply shorthand for "the root directory of standard
Falaise resources" and can be viewed as a "mount point" for standard
resources. The subsequent path is simply the path from that root to a
standard reconstruction script. This path can be derived from the information
output by the `--help-pipeline-list` argument described above.


Writing Reconstruction Results to File {#usingflreconstruct_usingoutputpaths}
======================================
Running `flreconstruct` as presented above will process data but not
persist any reconstruction results to file (e.g. for later analysis).
To write results to file, the `-o` option may be used to write processed
events to a file supplied as the argument, with the output format chosen
based on the file extension.

To output to the BRIO format recognised by `flreconstruct` use the `.brio`
extension:

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct -i example.brio -p myrecscript.conf -o results.brio
~~~~~

The resultant file may be examined directly to see what data has been
written by simply passing it back to `flreconstruct`, e.g.

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct -i results.brio
... output ...
~~~~~

It may also be further processed by `flreconstruct` using a pipeline
constructed from your own analysis modules. Please see the document on [FLReconstruct Pipeline Output](@ref flreconstructpipelineoutput)
for details of the data structures stored for each processed event.
Further documents are available detailing [how to write your reconstruction/analysis modules](@ref writingflreconstructmodules), and
[how to access event data from modules](@ref workingwitheventrecords).

Output to ROOT format is also possible by supplying an output file with
the `.root` extension:

~~~~~
$ flreconstruct -i example.brio -p myrecscript.conf -o results.root
~~~~~

The resultant file contains a single flat `TTree` structure that may be
browsed interactively. Note that currently this format only outputs
simulated and calibrated data, with no further reconstruction results.
A separate [converter program is available](@ref usingflptd2root) for
running full conversion, and will be gradually integrated into
flreconstruct for direct conversion.


Using Custom Pipelines {#usingflreconstruct_usingcustompipelines}
========================
The standard pipelines provided by Falaise are intended to cover a wide
range of use cases for standard reconstruction tasks leading to analyses.
However, if you need to study improvements to the reconstruction via tuning
existing modules or adding new ones then custom pipeline scripts can be
used in `flreconstruct`. The
[Writing FLReconstruct Pipeline Scripts](@ref writingflreconstructpipelinescripts) tutorial covers the syntax and structure of custom pipeline scripts.


Example {#usingflreconstruct_example}
=======

Falaise  provides  an  example  of FLreconstruct  configuration.   It  is
published   from    the   installation   resource    directory   in
`examples/flreconstruct/ex01/`.
